Incorporating fuzzy methods into the recommender systems was found to be a successful in various fields, e.g. e-commerce
(Walek & Fajmon, 2021), entertainment recommendations (Fojtik & Walek, 2020) or ... (TODO: FIND OTHERS).
In our previous work, we build from scratch a recommendation news web application and collected data from several users and their actions
like article link click-through and binary rating with the thumbs up and down symbols. Since we had no user data, we focused mainly content-based (CB) recommendations based on the
similarities of an articles to a one chosen article (e.g. the user saw these recommendation when clicked on particular articles below the article text.
Some of those recommendation methods like the CB method incorporating Word2Vec and cosine similarity found a decent success among the users, who rated this method with average precision of approx. 75%.
Since we had no prior user data and we could not assess the parameters of the models according to the goal task of recommending
web articles to the users, we needed to rely on a different strategies to choose the hyperparameter models: we used the
Question-Words and WordSim353 datasets to estimate the accuracy of the Word2Vec model and then created a few models based on the most promising results.
The model with the lowest Out-of-Vocabulary metric outperformed other methods in the final task of recommending the news articles to the user.
The other methods were for example Doc2Vec set on default parameters with the Cosine Similarity, Latent-Dirichlet Allocation (LaDA) with parameters
fine-tuned by the coherence metrics used with the Jensen-Shannon distance measurements, TF-IDF vectorization with
the Cosine similarity used in a 2 ways: providing N recommendations to a 1 queried article (like in the case of Word2Vec, Doc2Vev, LaDA) and by providing N recommendations to a keywords of topics of interests typed by the user in his profile,
SVD method (collaborative-filtering approach based on the user ratings) and the most minimalistic method of all: recommending the most popular articles in a category which was selected as interesting in the user profile.
