Recommendation systems are in the modern era widely used systems for providing users with relevant items for the consumption or interaction. The field of recommender systems intersects  several separate (sub-)fields of artificial intelligence, data science and information retrieval including machine learning (NLP), natural language processing, search engines and other (sub-)fields. This brings the complexity to this problem and possible problems for the aspiring science and developers' individuals or teams to incorporate the recommendation system solution to their existing or new systems. Limiting factors of the existing recommender methods and algorithms are the inability to provide effective solution suitable for a projects of a smaller scale (and smaller resurces) and the low to zero ability to influence the recommendations by a human operator to maintain the "human element" in the system. We find the domain of the news articles particularly tricky. In our case we work with various constraints, including the case of non-English language (Czech language with a high variance of words and usually directly not supported by the state-of-the art NLP libraries) or limited computational resources. The domain of the news articles is also tricky due to the unclear approach which one should follow. News recommendations clearly should not be approached in the identical manner to the recommendations of e-commerce products or even the items in the entertainment recommendation systems (e.g. movies, songs, etc.). We argue there is an higher demands on the human aspect of the recommender system and the demands on the flexibility of the system, since this domain contains a higher uncertainty (e.g. unexpected world events that takes over the main topics of the news).
Furthermore, in the cross-field perspective, news recommendations prone are prone to the various societal and psychological adverse effects (e.g. the echo chambers, fake news phenomenons or digital anxiety). It wouldn’t be wise to use the recommendation system solely as a black box without little control.
The expert systems which found great success in the medication applications (https://journal.chestnet.org/article/S0012-3692(15)42851-X/fulltext), to some extent helps to eliminate the Black Box Problem of the AI, maintaining the human aspect in the recommended articles and provide. We specifically designed the fuzzy expert system, so it can be used as a simple tool to set the more general, human understandable hyper-parameters (comparing to the more specific hyper-parameters of a machine learning, neural networks or NLP models which are understandable only to an experts in a certain computer science related fields).
In a layman's terms. The hypothetical scenarios of usefulness our approach can be following.
Suppose the users are not satisfied with a current state of the recommendation engine.
Human operators can recompute the parameters and results,
provide the recommendation to the corporate meeting and the company in coordination with the marketing team (and possibly data science expert)
can later decide whether they would like to focus more on the content-based approach or collaborative-filtering approach.
Suppose the current news topic radically changes (e.g. major world disaster, e.g. big volcano erupts, )